# BioStatsProj

                                                          ##Political Influence on the Spread of COVID-19
                                                             ###Antonio Cordova, Ryan McCool, Fan Zhang

	Recent times have brought upon us an unprecedented level of political division in the United States of America, all while we as a country grapple with a pandemic. COVID-19 data are being accumulated daily, with case and death counts varying across the country. As the U.S. continues to polarize en route to the 2020 election, it is within the realm of possibility that each state and their populace’s political affiliation is related to current COVID-19 data. The possible correlation between these two events is highlighted by current political dialogues. For example, the Democratic party’s claim that the President’s response has heightened the death toll. Conversely, the President claims that regions under Democratic control are responsible for the largest share of the country’s deaths. Here, we aim to use R’s powerful visualization pipeline to map political polling data to cases and deaths of COVID-19 within the country to explore these claims. We recreate a United States map by altering various parameters of pandemic severity in accordance with state data provided by The New York Times. From there, we denote state political affiliation by color based on either the election results from 2016 or pooled 2020 political polling data from FiveThirtyEight. Finally, we pair this visual evaluation with more technical, statistical analyses. This assessment provides a better understanding of the role population characteristics, namely political affiliation, play in our response to global events. 
